---
layout: post
title: Week 12 (11/6 - 11/12)
---

**This past week** saw representatives from Spiceworks give us a talk and Downing continuing our discussion of `virtual` and solving our `Shape` class hierarchy issues.

**In terms of things in my way,** there's the Kattis extra credit assignment and studying for Test #2 for this class left. Surprisingly, there's no papers assigned for this week of Thanksgiving.  

**Next week**, we just have one day of class before Thanksgiving break. According to the class schedule, we're continuing our discussion of `Shape` and talking about handles.

Spiceworks
----------
Three representatives from Spiceworks came to our class to talk about the company. The gist of it was that they're an Austin-based company specializing in creating tools for IT professionals and support for those tools. Having had no prior exposure to Spiceworks, it was interesting learning about them and what they did.

Their slides mentioned a large number of tools developers use on a daily basis, most of which I've already forgotten. The one overaching theme was "Ruby, Ruby, Ruby", from Ruby on Rails to JRuby and multiple references to Ruby in other parts of the talk. I'm only vaguely familiar with Ruby as an object-oriented language where everything (including Java primitives) are objects. 

I might go and pick up the language once I'm done writing some Scala applications: taking programming languages with Dr. Dillig really opens your eyes to how languages work underneath the hood and how to quickly pick up new ones. 

Class
-----
While I already knew why virtual destructors were necessary and the benefit of having pure virtual functions, I was surprised by the very niche case of a pure virtual destructor, which basically makes a class abstract without forcing inheriting derived classes to override any "real" methods. Other than that, most everything else was par for the course.

Life (Closing Thoughts)
-----------------------
The Life assignment was fun and not too bad. I thought the concept of a handle was interesting, but the tight coupling between FredkinCell and Cell made it difficult to create a truly OO design without resorting to hacks. 

Tip of the Week
---------------
For anyone used to Windows and wary about running Linux full-time, VMs or Bash on Ubuntu on Windows (aka WSL) are passable measures. See [Week 7](https://aaron-zou.github.io/Week-7/).

If you want to try a flavor of Linux that might be a little closer to what you're used to on Windows, [Linux Mint](https://www.linuxmint.com/) is a great distribution to try.

The [Cinnamon Edition](http://blog.linuxmint.com/?p=3051 ) is sleek, modern, and offers all the Linux goodness for us CS programmers with a GUI layer that might be more familiar.
