---
layout: post
title: Week 11 (10/30 - 11/5)
---

**This past week** saw a discussion of more advanced C++ concepts and fleshing out of the Vector class, as well as assignment submission for Darwin. 

**There isn't too much in my way.**  We're starting the final assignment "Life" soon. I'll coordinate with my partner and try to finish it as soon as possible.

**Next week**, we'll finally jump into inheritance and have the final project explained to us.

Class
-----
We spent the past week unraveling move semantics. Downing expanded on his earlier analogy of grave robbing to explain the motivation for having move semantics.

Avoiding unnecessary copying by "stealing" the contents of a r-value copy is the crux of the new feature introduced in C++11. He showed a good example of how method overloading would capture an argument depending on what versions had been defined (const reference, rvalue reference, etc.). He had us work through implementing move constructors and move assignment for the Vector class, which was a good exercise.

There was a somewhat confusing point regarding <tt>std::move()</tt>. While he described it as indicating a cast to an rvalue reference, he didn't explicitly state that the object being moved from would end up in a "valid but unspecified state" as in the C++ specification. There was some confusion over whose responsibility it is to set a value to nullptr or zero after having its contents "moved" from and when it occurs, if it happens at all. Since in Vector, we only access the backing array using the pointers that are set to nullptr, it doesn't matter in this case what the effect of calling <tt>move</tt> is.

Life
----
Our next assignment appears to be simulating cellular automata with something akin to Conway's Game of Life. Besides showing Downing's propensity for grid-based games (along with Darwin), the assignment spec acts as a sneak preview indicating we'll cover abstract classes and how inheritance works in C++.

That he's confined the class hierarchy is good, because it helps to lead to a smaller class of possible solutions. This assignment overall looks quite doable, especially with pairs. After this assignment, there won't be anything major until the second exam during the last week of class.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Something really cool I've been playing around with on my (pseudo-desktop) Linux environment is [Variety](http://peterlevi.com/variety/how-to-install/). It's a free wallpaper switching application that automatically downloads high-quality wallpapers from various sources (NASA's pick of the day, wallhaven.cc, flickr, unsplash) and will cycle through them on a regular interval you can set.

You can mark favorites that are saved in a separate folder among many possible sources you can choose the application to choose from. This being Linux, you can customize nearly everything, from how often new images are downloaded to when old wallpapers should be deleted cache-style and many other options.

Definitely give it a try if you're able and donate to this one-man effort - it's a solid application.