---
layout: post
title: Week 6 (9/25 - 10/1)
---

**This past week** was focused on learning more material in preparation for the first exam in the course. We covered a large amount of increasingly more low-level content and were quizzed accordingly.  

**There isn't too much in my way.** The test is coming up next week, so I'll spend my time allotted to this class brushing up on what we've covered and preparing.

**Next week** we take our first exam in OOP. I'm assuming Project #3 will be released soon after.

Course
------
We covered iterators in greater detail along with RangeIterator, some more STL algorithms, and many of C++'s class details. 

Downing mostly used the same teaching style to approach wrapping up iterator discussion. We were introduced to the C++ lambda syntax and capturing groups from a quiz. The real meat of this week lay in our discussion of C++ classes. 

C++ classes have a dizzying array of need-to-memorize knowledge associated with them. This encapsulates both best practices and simply how certain syntax works. The best example of this is the keyword <tt>const</tt>. 

Downing continually emphasized passing parameters by <tt>const</tt> reference, which means 
the parameter can't be modified and r-values can be accepted. <tt>const</tt> can also prevent a method from modifying the object it belongs to. 

Some of the lectures felt like an info dump at times, with insufficient time dedicated to some of the more confusing topics. While member initialization lists and the distinction between the various constructors make sense with prior exposure, I don't know if the class as a whole was prepared for the quiz.

Quizzes
-------
The quizzes over material have gotten more difficult over time, really requiring understanding of the material as well as thinking quickly. This has made them useful practice questions for the most part. Our quiz on Friday had a few issues relating to question phrasing and answer choices that resulted in the first two questions being tossed out.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Many CS courses require typesetting homework solutions in LaTeX. LaTeX is formally described
as a "document preparation system" and is invaluable for handling mathematical expressions and the typesetting of code snippets and text as well.

In general, the output looks nice, and teachers don't want to deal with illegible handwriting. It's a win-win for both sides, at the cost of taking longer (at first) for the student.

There are online LaTeX editors like [Overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/) that allow for real-time editing and viewing online. 

If you'd prefer to write your LaTeX on your local machine (which works without internet access and doesn't put your work/research in some guy's cloud), [TexLive](https://www.tug.org/texlive/) has instructions for getting a TeX system up and running on your OS of choice.

After this, get started with some templates and online guides, then run the <tt>pdflatex</tt> command to generate a PDF from your .tex source file. Some document viewers like [Evince](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evince) will auto-refresh your document as you change it, which is really convenient.
