---
layout: post
title: Week 4 (9/11 - 9/17)
---

**This past week** was both informative and frustrating. Having a UTCS alum talk to us about Bloomberg was a nice learning opportunity to get information both on Bloomberg as a company and what it's like to graduate and work in industry. However, the new assignment (Netflix) involved a lot of new logistical changes that added up to be somewhat frustrating.

**There isn't too much in my way.** Simon and I knocked out the design and separation of concerns and responsibilities pretty quickly in one pair programming session. We both understand clearly what's left to do to finish the assignment. Readings are important as usual.

**Next week**, the C(N)S career fair will be on everyone's minds. More than two hundred companies will be there, offering both internship and full-time opportunities. The fall fair is when most positions are open and more useful than the spring fair in my opinion. The Netflix assignment will also be due.

Course
------
This week, we went over the equal function, iterators, templates, and more passing arguments by value vs reference. Implementing equal on our own was a good exercise in understanding how to quickly generate the implementation for a public interface. I thought Downing did a good job covering templates, iterators, and trying to ensure that we really did understand passing by value vs reference. 


Netflix
-------
Downing decided to migrate to GitHub Classroom, champion the use of Boost, and introduce the use of caches sitting on the CS machines for us to use for the Netflix assignment. These are all great moves I have no issue with, but implementing them all at the same time might have been a little much to handle.

The migration to GitHub Classroom complicated Travis integration and required a few Piazza posts and someone contacting Travis CI support before the remainder went smoothly. The rationale was to avoid needing to invite the graders to everyone's repos while also providing sandboxing of each team's repos. While all's well that ends well, doing a trial run beforehand might have been helpful in understanding what steps were necessary to get everything up and running. 

Boost has a nice serialization library, as Professor Downing pointed out to us. Reading through tutorials and documentation revealed the code itself to be theoretically straightfoward to use. However, it took me the better part of the morning to set up some tests using serialization functions and modify the makefile and .travis.yml. Getting the code to actually compile took an hour or so of wandering through the internet trying to figure out exactly what was necessary. While it turns out that an additional package is necessary as well as a LDFLAG being passed in to g++, this effort could have been saved upfront with instructions.

Not being allowed to use multiple files bothers me even though I'm pretty sure why the limitation was imposed. Allowing students to use new/malloc/delete/free is more likely than not to cause issues due to poor memory management. Similarly, allowing multiple files doesn't allow for a Makefile file check target and would force the graders to use a provided Makefile that may or may not actually work. For medium to larger projects, however, the implementation is never all in one file.

In the real world, things aren't nice and cut and dry. Installation instructions turn out not to work, a co-worker's code works on their machine only, specs and deadlines change. While I was somewhat frustrated I needed to spend significant time figuring things out, I still found the Netflix assignment to be meaningful and an interesting problem.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Contrary to what our excellent guest speaker said, Vim is clearly superior to Emacs.

Vim is a free, open-source text editor available on [all platforms](http://www.vim.org/download.php).

The vimtutor program is a good way to get started on learning the basics. There are plenty of other online guides and posts on how to learn and get proficient with Vim. Now, why should you care?

Many times, you'll need to manage remote machines over SSH. It's often inconvenient and/or slow to setup X11 forwarding to edit with a GUI editor. sshfs is also viable but can take some time to refresh changes made. Doing everything in the terminal can streamline productivity.

Vim is also highly extensible. There are many plugins written for Vim that extend its functionality. Use a plug-in manager like [Vundle](https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim) to modify your .vimrc file and make Vim into an all-powerful editor. I use [airline](https://github.com/vim-airline/vim-airline) for my status bar, for instance. There's plugins for Git, syntax highlighting and completion, directory navigation, and much of what you can think of.

