---
layout: post
title: Week 3 (9/4 - 9/10)
---

**This past week**, I worked on finishing up the Collatz project and attended Engineering Expo. As Professor Downing said, we should "move heaven and earth to not be here this coming summer and to get an internship instead". From my experience, internships have always been rewarding experiences. 

**What is in my way?** Not much is blocking me in OOP at the moment. I need to remember to stay up-to-date on the readings.

**Next week**, the second assignment will be released. I'll try to find a partner and apply the pair programming readings from last week to this assignment.

## Class Thoughts
This week was pretty interesting, to say the least. We spent Wednesday covering pre- and post-increment.This was accompanied by a healthy discussion of pass-by-value and pass-by-reference semantics. Downing reassured us that we didn't fully understand the topic, which was definitely proven correct when we got a collective ~33% on the quiz Friday. 

Pointers are often considered one of the hardest subjects for aspiring programmers to grasp. A single level of indirection takes a while to get used to. Then you get something like: 

```c
int *(*(*ptr)(int))[4]; 
```

which just looks completely incomprehensible. This is a pointer to a function with an int parameter that returns a pointer to an array of 4 pointers to ints, for anyone curious. 

The notion of references also appeared stump the class as a whole to some degree, especially when combined with raw pointers. Downing's explanation that references are essentially fixed name aliases for locations in memory was spot-on and a good way to explain the topic. He also drew diagrams on the board that helped to cement the concept.

## Move Semantics 
The natural extension to our discussion of references is *move semantics*, which are explained very well in [this article](http://www.cprogramming.com/c++11/rvalue-references-and-move-semantics-in-c++11.html). We've discussed rvalues and lvalues in class, so we're familiar with how lvalues refer to memory locations while rvalues... don't. 

People have probably encountered copy constructors in languages like Java when a deep clone needs to be done on an object. They function much the same in C++, allowing a programmer to instantiate a new class instance and copy the values one-by-one from the object to clone.

The problem is that the copy constructor has to allocate new memory for any nested instance members and copy their values, which can be quite slow. The copy constructor must be called in cases where nested objects are passed by value, for example as a function return value. 

Simply passing the outer pointer clearly wouldn't create a 'correct' object. In C++11, it was noticed that temporary deep copies were being created and then immediately destroyed after assignment (being bound to a variable). Of course, the old instance wouldn't matter anymore. 

To address this issue, the '&&' operator was introduced as an 'rvalue reference'. This can be used to implement move constructors, in constrast to copy constructors. These allow the new object to "steal" all pointers that belonged to the original object and swap its empty state for those pointers, since the original object wouldn't miss them anyway. This is definitely glossing over the details.

[This](http://www.artima.com/cppsource/rvalue.html) is also an informative read.

## Collatz Musings
This project was definitely beneficial in terms of introducing us to the set of tools (Travis CI, Docker, Valgrind, Google Test, etc.) we'll be using in this class. Having never used Travis before, I was pleasantly surprised with the painlessness of the GitHub integration and the genuine usefulness of having tests automatically run with every push.

Writing a quick ~20-line Python script to randomly generate valid acceptance tests that wouldn't overflow was also a fun challenge. I also added some cases by hand to the end. The process of thinking through how to make good acceptance tests was definitely worthwhile.

The time allotted for the assignment was more than fair, and various quirks like feature tagging didn't really distract. Opening and closing 15 issues was also surprisingly less painful than I thought it was going to be.

There were some annoying aspects of the project though. The ambiguity surrounding the grading process and general vagueness of the spec were even acknowledged by Dr. Downing. But a lack of instructions about configuring clang-check and clang-format, default silent incorrect behavior from the Doxyfile, and others felt like an unnecessary time drain.

It's true that malformed specs, configuration errors, and bugs in third-party tools and libraries all inevitably crop, so I definitely understand Dr. Downing's rationale for some of the deliberate challenge that can be attributed to ambiguity and such mistakes. I would still appreciate if it wasn't as apparent in future projects.

Overall, the Collatz project was beneficial for my skills as a developer. Being forced to use more of Git's features and integrating with Travis CI has opened my eyes, and I can't close them again. Now for the release of the Project 2 spec.

### Tip of the Week
Look at your keyboard right now. Do you notice anything useless about it?
...
If you answered the Caps Lock key, you and I are on the same page.
Wikipedia claims the Caps Lock key has its origins in mechanical typewriters where holding down Shift was literally too painful to maintain for long.

On our modern keyboards, however, holding down Shift with a pinky finger pretty much obliterates whatever niche the Caps Lock key once had.

Wouldn't it be nice if that key (which is located right next to home row) could be reclaimed and turned into something more useful?

On Windows, MacOS, and Linux, there are methods for accomplishing this.

**Windows**: [Vim Wiki Page](http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Map_caps_lock_to_escape_in_Windows) which also links to helpful external programs.
**MacOS**: [Apple Support](https://support.apple.com/kb/PH21538)
**Linux**: <tt>gnome-tweak-tool<tt> lets you govern Caps Lock behavior. On any desktop (not just GNOME-based), you can run:
```shell
setxkbmap -option caps:[option] # where opton is one of the following:
# none - disable Caps Lock entirely
# ctrl_modifier - Caps Lock becomes an additional Control key
# numlock – Caps Lock becomes an additional Num Lock
# swapescape – Caps Lock becomes Escape, and Escape becomes Caps Lock
# escape – Caps Lock becomes an additional Escape
# backspace – Caps Lock becomes an additional Backspace
# super – Caps Lock becomes an additional Super (also known as the Windows key)
```

