---
layout: post
title: Week 7 (10/1 - 10/8)
---

**This past week** was mostly lead-up to the exam.

**There isn't too much in my way.** The waiting game for Project #3 is the main thing.

**Next week**, we'll probably get Project #3 and go over more C++ language details.

Exam
----
Our first test in OOP took place Thursday. Overall, the test was pretty easy and fair. There were creative components involved in some of the questions, which was nice. My largest complaint was that this has been the only test I've ever taken so far where the presence of a cheat sheet with certain information on it actually gave a competitive advantage.

There was a degree of memorization that was required beyond what was covered often enough in class that we would naturally internalize it. Of course, Professor Downing's rules about what was allowed on the cheat sheet helped to some extent. But there were some small details that one could conceivably not realize were absent until comparing against the exact interface for some of the classes later on.

While overall I'm sure the class did fine, I would strongly prefer an exam that requires more thinking on the part of figuring out the internal implementation of the questions rather than being advantaged by rote memorization or "getting lucky" with specific code snippets written down on cheat sheets.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Since we routinely use Linux (especially Debian-based distros like Ubuntu) for CS assignments and development, we often find ourselves needing to go to the UTCS labs to leverage the powerful machines there.

There are some good alternatives to physically going to the UTCS Lab that all have their individual drawbacks.

1. [Bash on Windows](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/commandline/wsl/install_guide) (this isn't a LinuxMasterRace insult)

With the Windows 10 Anniversary Update came something most of us thought Microsoft would never do in a million years. They brought the Ubuntu 14.04 LTS userspace image over to Windows and implemented most of the POSIX syscalls, working with access to the Windows kernel internals. This is very much a work in progress (graphical utilities and Unix sockets don't work), but you can get access to gcc, python, ruby, native SSH, and most of the command-line utilities you're used to working with. On Windows.

2. [Windows/Ubuntu Dualboot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)

If your hard drive is big enough, you can carve out a partition using the built-in partition manager in Windows 7/8.1/10 or a variety of free tools out there. The advantage is that you're running true Linux and everything works pretty much perfectly. The downside is needing to reboot between your partitions.

3. [Linux VM](https://www.virtualbox.org/)

I've linked to VirtualBox, but VMWare also works well. Using a VM has the downside of dividing your system resources and making it more difficult to multitask and run other applications while your Linux VM is spun up. The upside is having Windows and Linux running at the same time.

4. sshfs

You can use this utility to mount a remote filesystem using SSH onto your local machine. This lets you use Sublime Text or Eclipse locally on your machine to edit files on the CS machines. X11 forwarding is really slow, so running your text editors and IDE on the remote machine is usually not a good idea.




