---
layout: post
title: Week 2 (8/29 - 9/4)
---

**This past week** we received our first assignment, Collatz, discussed various aspects during class, and also explored exceptions. I worked on Collatz, familiarizing myself with the workflow prescribed in the spec, and finished after about two days of work. My time estimate was roughly half the amount of time I actually spent - I was reminded of Dr. Downing's assurance that our estimates would suck but get better over time (hopefully). 

**What's in my way?** My roommates and I accidentally ordered the second edition of the textbook, which is many chapters fewer than the third edition. I'll use the online chapters for the next two or three weeks while the third edition copy we ordered comes in.  

**Next week**, I'll enjoy the Labor Day holiday, maybe go out to the Engineering Expo, and get ready for the inevitable second project when it comes in. The assigned readings for the week cover pair programming and team collaboration, vital skills for the workplace that I've been asked about in interviews many times before.   

We spent the first two lectures of the week discussing the Collatz project. We already covered the basic algorithm last Friday, but this week saw us examining various optimizations and why they worked. Skipping an iteration for an odd number was an interesting speedup, as was the observation found in a quiz question that the search space can be pruned if half the upper bound is greater than the lower bound. 

Dr. Downing's lecture on exceptions was exceptionally (sorry) well done. He opened by reminding the class why assertions are unsuitable for handling user error (the entire program halts). As a class, we then gradually worked through possible alternatives. 
Checking the return value, using a global variable, and passing arguments by reference to be modified by the callee all had various unattractive properties.

He explained exceptions as the happy medium between assertions and the alternatives using the analogy of an annoying significant other.
Assertions were shooting her in the head, the alternatives we came up with were complaints that were ignored, but exceptions were compalints with the explicit threat that we would shoot her.

This unfortunate analogy definitely helped to cement why we need exceptions and how various solutions stack up to the task of handling user error.

### Tip of the Week
SSH is something we all probably use pretty often. A lot of our classes require that projects be tested and work on the lab machines, so we use native SSH or PuTTy to remotely access and manage lab machines.

As a refresher for anyone who's forgotten, the steps for setting up SSH are as follows:

```shell
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "john@cs.utexas.edu"
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub [username]@[machine].cs.utexas.edu
```

However, this requires that you type: 

```shell
ssh [username]@[machine].cs.utexas.edu
```
every time you want to log in. And if you're managing AWS instances, other remote machines, GitHub, and other services, this can be annoying to manage by hand.

An SSH config file can manage all that for you and more. The file lives at ``$HOME/.ssh/config`` and should be created if it doesn't already exist. You can specify multiple hosts as follows:

```shell
Host aero
    HostName aero.cs.utexas.edu
    Port 22
    User [username]
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/[path to private key]
Host github.com
    HostName github.com
    User [username]
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/[path to private key]
```

There are also additional options like port forwarding, TCPKeepAlive, and ServerAlive that are useful as well.

Happy coding!
