---
layout: post
title: Week 10 (10/23 - 10/29)
---

**This past week** saw the assignment of Project #4 (Darwin), a talk from Pariveda, and the 50th anniversary of the UTCS department. I was out interviewing on-site Thursday and Friday with Palantir and Facebook.

**There isn't too much in my way.** My partner and I should be able to wrap up Darwin fairly quickly.

**Next week**, we'll turn in Project 4 and discuss move semantics and function overloading (looking at the schedule).

Class
-----
We only had one class day dedicated to C++ this week, where Downing explained the next programming assignment: Darwin. He clarified a few things that weren't apparent in the specification and really hammered home the "no getters and setters" rule.

Wednesday was dedicated to a talk by representatives of Pariveda Solutions, a sort of hybrid tech-consulting company. They did a good job of communicating information about the company and their personal experiences there, as well as general interviewing tips. 

Friday was the 50th Anniversary celebration, and class was cancelled. This was a lucky break for me, since I was out interviewing. I was really disappointed I missed talks by Grauman, Lin, and Aaronson, though. 

Test Feedback
-------------
We received our test grades back. The distribution was a high of 223/225, a low of 15/225, mean of 181.6/225. The test overall was fine, and I had no issues with my grade. There were a few hiccups that prompted people to ask Piazza questions trying to recover points that were quashed by Cindy taking time to explain the rubric, TA, and Canvas interplay.

Darwin
------
The Darwin assignment is basically the Stanford Darwin's World programming assignment but highly simplified. Anyone who took CS 314H will remember doing the CritterFest assignment, which was closer to Darwin's World but with the added challenge of beating **other people's Critters** in the class.

Downing's assertion that there should be no getters and setters is an admirable statement, but the specifics have proven themselves to be pretty difficult to nail down concretely. Some people on Piazza misinterpreted this to mean "no getting data out of a class", which makes most designs intractable. 

There has to be at minimum some degree of data exchange between classes. Avoiding getters and setters is really about avoiding coupling design to a specific implementation, which is broken when getters and setters essentially create public fields.

I think for most people, the implementation follows quickly once a good design is agreed upon for the various classes and their interactions.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Not sure if this is technically a tip, but I'll share some of my experiences interviewing with Palantir Technologies and Facebook Inc this past Thursday and Friday. Palantir and Facebook are both fantastic companies that I think most people would be happy working for. 

Palantir's based in Palo Alto, California, and they occupy 20 or so buildings in downtown Palo Alto. The process for getting to an on-site is passing a resume screen and either a coding challenge + phone interview or an on-campus interview (which I did). The interview process occupies roughly six hours and consists of an introduction presentation, three technical interviews, a lunch "interview", and a product demo.

While two of their technical interviews are traditional challenging algorithmic problems, the third is what they call a "decomp" interview. This basically amounts to being handed a large-scale problem that can't be coded in an hour and breaking it down into a high-level design with class structure and implementing parts that the interviewer wants to see. It was kinda funny that this somewhat resembles what we need to do for Darwin. I actually really enjoyed my decomp interview, and the other two went fine as well.

The lunch "interview" is really just being able to chat with an engineer who works there while grabbing food prepared by their chefs on their campus (there's free meals for all employees - breakfast, lunch, and dinner). The intro presentation and product demo were both really helpful, especially for people who don't know what they do. The product demo was also nice, because we saw a demonstration of a product that's not actually listed on their website, since they collaborate with government agencies as well as businesses.

Facebook is headquartered in Menlo Park but has a substantial engineering presence in Seattle, where I interviewed at. Getting to on-site required either a phone interview or an on-campus interview after a resume screen. Three of the four hours their on-site process took were actually non-technical. We first grabbed lunch as a group and then sat through a presentation about the company, the intern program, and associated perks. 

We then had a single hour-long technical interview, which was a fairly standard whiteboard algorithmic interview. We then got a Q&A with a panel of engineers, followed by a tour around their Seattle office. Their office is definitely really nice, and some of the floors are still under construction.
