---
layout: post
title: Week 12 (11/6 - 11/12)
---

**This past week** saw the introduction of the final assignment ("Life") and an introduction to inheritance in C++. 

**There isn't too much in my way.**  I was able to get a working implementation of Life pretty quickly, and my partner and I are working to improve it and wrap up the assignment.

**Next week**, I expect that we'll continue our discussion of inheritance, virtual functions, shadowing, and scope.

Class
-----
Downing motivated our discussion of inheritance with a simple example of a Shape parent and Circle child. I appreciated his use of lines like `Circle (const Circle&) = default;` and quiz questions that tested our understanding of the C++ default behavior for the four class methods (constructor, copy constructor, destructor, copy assignment) and when that behavior was reliable or unreliable.

At first without access to the `virtual` keyword, we were forced to examine method overriding in the context of the C++ compiler searching for matching method signatures as well as using the superclass name to qualify method calls. OOP has definitely exposed me to many C++ language features I've never seen or thought about before. 

With access to `virtual`, our discussions became much more interesting, since we began to see more familiar Java-like behavior with some differences. Next week should be interesting if we dive into vtables and understanding why there's a performance hit to marking methods `virtual`.

Life
----
I think the Life assignment was well structured and interesting. The "no getter and setter" restriction does force us to come up with a more creative and arguably better design to solve the problem. The logic overall wasn't terrible to write, and there weren't any major annoyances outside a good design for the Fredkin-Conway conversion logic and avoidance of asking Cells if they were alive directly.

Tip of the Week
---------------
Even if most people aren't interested in pursuing research as a career, it's not a far stretch to say that research still drives industry forward. Major theoretical advancements are accompanied by real-world implementations that accelerate the pace of technological change. Map-reduce, for example, began as a research paper from Google in 2005 and spurred the big data movement and the development of the Apache Hadoop and Spark frameworks, both of which have become industry standard.

Reading interesting research is worthwhile both for seeing how much your computer science background here has prepared you for understanding the papers themselves and also learning new information that might be useful in industry later down the road. Some helpful links:

- [Microsoft Research](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/)
- [Google Research](https://research.google.com/pubs/papers.html)
- [Facebook Research](https://research.facebook.com/publications/)
- [Cornell Archives](https://arxiv.org/archive/cs)
