---
layout: post
title: Week 8 (10/9 - 10/15)
---

**This past week** was saw the release of OOP Project #3 and more concepts being taught.

**There isn't too much in my way.** I knocked out the allocator assignment Tuesday to focus on interview prep.

**Next week**, we'll submit Project #3, look more into vectors and STL containers, and data structure design, most likely.

Class
-----
We received and discussed the Allocator assignment and dealt with the significance of now having access to heap memory and C++ allocators. Finally, we discussed the STL vector class and its design and design motivations.

Professor Downing did a good job of explaining the difference between stack-based and heap-based allocation methods, including pros/cons and how the STL allocator abstracts out the backing store. He mentioned that an allocator could wrap around stack memory, which could be very useful in an embedded environment.

It's nice that we're beginning to examine data structures and their implementations in C++. While the class is probably familiar with the data structures themselves, there's many considerations that are important for creating an efficient implementation that takes advantage of C++ features. 

Allocator Assignment
--------------------
Professor Downing really did us a favor by giving us a well-defined and fairly straightforward assignment. The main questions on Piazza relate to GitHub Classroom and not clarifying the assignment details, which serves as evidence of this. 

While I was able to knock this project out in roughly three hours, this is my third time implementing a heap/allocator (Gheith's OS and EE 312), and we weren't required to thread a linked list to track free blocks for this assignment. Implementing an allocator is in my opinion a very useful exercise to cement pointer arithmetic skills and improve testing and debugging skills when things go awry.

Overall, I think this assignment was pretty well-specified, valuable to teach the internals of a heap, and I have no complaints overall. This leaves more time for interview prep and other classes.

Interviews
----------
I have final round on-sites with Microsoft, Facebook, and Palantir in the next three weeks, all on Mondays or Fridays. It's a little frustrating that quizzes can't be dropped for missing technical interviews (Downing strongly encourages us to seek out internships) but I obviously can't do anything about it. 

Tip of the Week
---------------
For anyone else interviewing, I think trying out resources other people have mentioned like CareerCup, TopCoder, and HackerRank is probably a good use of time. A solid understanding of data structures and algorithms is primarily what's being tested, as well as specific domain knowledge (sometimes). 

Interview prep sheets that I've been emailed by recruiters from Microsoft, Google, etc. actually mention "Cracking the Coding Interview" and the above websites as resources to use, so they're definitely using a lot of the same questions and ideas internally (unsurprisingly). 

Of course, memorizing hundreds of problems isn't the best use of time. It's more important to fundamentally understand recursion, tree traversals, and dynamic programming for when the interviewer puts a spin on a problem or introduces a question where the solution is less immediately obvious.