---
layout: post
title: Week 1 (8/24-28)
---

This Really Isn't a Theory Class
--------------------------------
*A new school year dawns, which is the cue for every CS student to prepare for the unenviable onslaught of programming assignments, weekly proof-based homeworks, and difficult exams.*

**This past week**, the first week of the semester, was spent reading syllabi, digitizing syllabi and readings into Nirvana, and installing things on my local Ubuntu dualboot where no one yells at me for typing 'sudo'. 
Luckily, Downing provides us a Docker image with everything on it for OOP. Unluckily, I replicated most of the structure locally before I realized this. 

**There isn't much in my way**. While there's a part of me itching to get started on the OOP programming assignments, the rest of me realizes that they'll most likely be somewhat significant time investments. 
Setup's out of the way, since I can develop locally using Docker.  

**Next week** will involve absorbing more lecture material, preparing for the first assignment, and taking lots of quizzes.
The assigned readings look intriguing and nowhere as daunting as "Knowledge and Common Knowledge in a Distributed Environment", the first paper we read for Distributed Computing. 
Seeing titles like "Git Guide" reinforces the theme that this class is a crash course in helping students acclimate to how things are done in industry.

This class is very different from the courses I've taken thus far. Algorithms with Dr. Price and Distributed Computing with Dr. Alvisi heavily emphasized difficult but foundational theory. 
OOP is meant to help students learn about the software engineering process and useful industry tools like Docker, Google Test, and Travis CI.
This course also functions as an introduction to C++, the language that *with* smart pointers is still like a rifle with the safety half-on. 

Downing teaches by example, explaining assertions with code examples and output that clearly demonstrate appropriate use cases, strengths, and weaknesses. 
He also quite literally picks people's names off the roster and calls them to answer questions about the code displayed on the screen.

From the two lectures we've had already, he's demonstrated good lecturing ability, a clear knowledge of the subject material, and an impressive streak of showing the class our collective first guess is often wrong. The quizzes seem like sanity checks on lecture material so far; my impression might change later on.

So far, I have high hopes that this will be a rewarding class that will better prepare me for future internships and general coding mentality.

### Tip of the Week
I'll start off by dumping some useful productivity tips I picked up over the summer. See your associated OS, I finally learned how to use Mac OS X when I was provided a Macbook Pro for work.

**Windows 10**: I decided to try to free up space on my primary partition. [WinDirStat](https://windirstat.info/) provides a nice visual way to see what's taking up space on your hard drive. [PatchCleaner](http://www.homedev.com.au/free/patchcleaner) detected ~30 GB of legacy .msi and .msp files from Windows 8.1 and legacy/uninstalled applications, the majority of which I deleted. If you use Steam, you know that you should clear out `/commonapps` of stuff you don't use regularly. Finally, check that any cloud services you're using aren't saving huge files/directories locally. Google Photos was backed up already but still used up ~50 GB of space. 

**Mac OS X (El Capitan)**: [Spectacle](https://www.spectacleapp.com/) makes tiling very fast and convenient - only a few keypresses away. If you aren't using [iTerm2](https://www.iterm2.com/version3.html) already, you're missing out on a beautiful and powerful terminal emulator that leaves the default Terminal app 30 years in the past. Finally, [brew](http://brew.sh/) is a package manager that brings the goodness of `apt-get` to your Mac. 

**Ubuntu**: The Unity Tweak Tool (get it via `apt-get`) allows for more fine-grained control of the Unity desktop environment, including workspace settings and more. Byobu is a wrapper around tmux (by default) and allows for terminal multiplexing in your terminal emulator app. Unity's tabs are pretty ugly, and this is a powerful way to take control of your terminal. On the security side, make sure to disable the Guest Account, root account (this is done by default), and if your machine is configured as an SSH server that password authentication is disabled.
