---
layout: post
title: Week 5 (9/18 - 9/25)
---

**This past week** was very busy. FoCS and the CNS career fair came and went. We had a representative from JPL speak to our class. The Netflix assignment deadline also came and went.

**There isn't too much in my way.** Until Project 3 hits, OOP will consist mainly of continuing our discussion of iterators,
algorithms, and their implementations in the STL.

**Next week**, the OOP Test #1 continues its inexorable march. More readings will present themselves, and class will continue.

Course
------
Iterators and algorithms that use them were the theme of this week. Professor Downing eased us into the topic by providing some simple
STL algorithms that introduced this idea of a contract between iterators and algorithms that use them. He also challenged us to
provide basic and templated versions of these algorithms (copy and fill).

RMSE was a more challenging example that also led him to discuss the map-reduce paradigm with respect to C++ and the STL. This refers to
the idea that one or multiple input streams (iterators) are processed to generate a single output stream that represents a mathematical
function of the inputs. Reduce is then used to generate a single output value from the stream.

Netflix
-------
This assignment represented a noticeable departure from the relative orderliness of Collatz (the first project). Many different aspects
required substantial clarification or were finally explained near the very end. One example was the change to GitHub Classroom and
whether repository names were still required to conform to a standard. A Piazza post after the deadline confirmed no punishment would be
dealt to any groups that were unaware.

While the most interesting part of this assignment was the freedom to design and implement algorithms to effectively solve the Netflix
problem, almost all of our (and probably every other group's) effort went towards designing caches, writing surrounding boilerplate, and
navigating a frustrating love-hate relationship with good OO design.

Specifically, the three unit tests per function requirement acts as a deterrent to writing more free functions and/or methods, which
is usually the direction good code tends toward. The other frustrating part of the assignment was the single file requirement, which
forced my partner and I to use Unix utilities to manage a normal source directory containing source files and concatenate them into
a giant Frankenstein Netflix.h/c++ file for submission.

I'm looking forward to seeing what Project #3 is. Hopefully there's more room to maneuver with regards to files and/or methods, but
the degree to which that would matter depends entirely on the problem and scope of the assignment.

Tip of the Week
---------------
tmux is a "terminal multiplexer", which means it allows a developer to manage multiple virtual consoles inside a single terminal 
window instance.

This can be extremely useful for managing remote sessions and local programs simultaneously. You can be SSH'ed into a lab machine in
one tab, run a slow-running make in another, and edit code with vim in a third.

tmux also offers split panes, arbitrary resizing of panes, and many keyboard shortcuts to manage every aspect.

The utility itself is installed by default on Ubuntu boxes and is easy to get on Mac OS X. Obviously, tmux doesn't exist on Windows, 
but you chose your fate long ago.

Here's a great list of all the commands you should look through and try out:

https://gist.github.com/MohamedAlaa/2961058

