---
layout: post
title: Week 14 (11/28 - 12/4)
---

**This past week** was the last week of the course and saw us cover "smart pointers", finish up our handle discussion, and take our final exam.

Ironically, this blog post is the **only thing left**, and there's no **next week**.

Final Exam (Test #2)
--------------------
Our Test #2 (basically our final exam) was last Thursday. While I still have some misgivings about the Canvas administering method, I overall greatly appreciated this exam. If the rationale of using Canvas is guaranteeing legible code, I can understand the decision. Since the first exam was so short (one of my friends was the first out the door after half an hour for a 1.5 hour test), the ramp up in length for this exam was welcome, even if the difficulty wasn't substantially higher.

The question formulations were very long, but solutions for some of the questions could be quite short. Some way to view the questions and test cases on half of the screen and type in text boxes on the right half would be an ideal way to take a Canvas test but might not work within the UI's limitations. Paying attention to Downing's "hint hints" unsurprisingly paid off, and the material being tested was very fair.

Class
-----

### Initial Thoughts
I had heard a few horror stories and disgruntled voices coming into this course. People noted the tests were insane time crunches, feedback on project was opaque, quizzes were dumb, and the unit test requirement made them worse programmers. Surprisingly, I ended up disagreeing with nearly all of the complaints that were raised.

### Use of Tools (GitHub, Docker, Google Test, make, Valgrind)
The GitHub integration and use of Makefiles was useful throughout. However, a lot of the vaunted "learning industry tools" was pretty forgettable and either in the background or nonexistent. Docker, for instance, was basically just an alternative way to develop your project code (if you don't have a Mac). Google Test was required for our unit tests throughout but most interaction amounted to copying and modifying the code snippets on Downing's website and some basic understanding of what the macros did. There really wasn't any point in using Valgrind, since we didn't even allow "new" until very late in the semester and even then in highly restricted contexts.

Overall, the tool integration was one of the weaker elements of the course. Building familiarity with them is the stated goal, but I would argue that either more focus should be placed on using them throughout or some tools should be discarded.

### Projects
The projects were the weakest part of the course in my opinion. While there was some initial fright with understanding the development pipeline and submission guidelines, a rhythm quickly developed for the assignments. My biggest complaint is that they should have been substantially more difficult (given the team allowed) if pair programming was allowed. Raising the base difficulty by a moderate amount and perhaps throwing in some stretch goals that challenged understanding of C++ and good object-oriented programming would be a good step.

While this class is really a C++ class with some other good ideas sprinkled in, it was frustrating how little actual object-oriented programming was emphasized or required in the projects. A rigid design was either forced on the programmer via the spec, or there was no clear indication how understanding the OO paradigm would help with the assignment. Demanding significantly more from teams (nearly two weeks were allocated for each assignment), creating space for OO design, and requiring teams to come up with a good OO design and defend it in a write-up would be more beneficial for learning.

Instead, artificial difficulty was injected with unclear specifications, significant bookkeeping logistics revolving around the aforementioned tools, and sometimes arbitrary grading.

### Lectures
I really have nothing but praise for Downing's lectures. While he could have perhaps gone a little faster and covered some additional material, he did an excellent job of explaining the C++ language, its quirks, and forcing us to internalize what decisions should be made regarding efficiency and correctness when writing C++.

His forced calling on people (probably) kept everyone on their toes - "I better kinda know the stuff in case he calls on me". It might have slowed the class down overall but helped to ensure the whole class was mostly on the same page. His humorous analogies were useful for digesting some of the more exotic topics like copy-and-swap, move semantics, and the various natures of "const". 

Overall, he's a fantastic lecturer, and I think his approach of walking the class through code to demonstrate language features works great.

### Quizzes
The quizzes were either very easy or tricky in a "gotcha" fashion. The quizzes after the guest speakers were laughably easy, for instance. The same tricks kept working for topics like move semantics and inheritance. It was good getting an immediate gauge of how well the class understood the lecture material, and I'm sure Downing used the quiz results for this purpose.

The quizzes were a great addition to the course to force daily checkups on whether the C++ material made sense. 

### Exams
I've given my thoughts on the second test above and the first exam in Week 7's blog post.

The tests were a natural extension of the quizzes with regard to the class logistics. They consisted almost entirely of writing code to meet a specification and pass test cases. In one sense, we were basically, implementing the constructs that Downing lectured about and spent class time breaking down for us. They aren't too much of a worry if you have a good grasp on the material being covered in lecture and on the quizzes.

### Overall
I didn't really know what to expect entering this course. While there was somewhat of a rough start with some of the project logistics at the beginning fo the year, things smoothened out over the semester. I respect Downing for his teaching prowess in the classroom and his ability to write quiz and exam questions. While I think the projects could be toughened up significantly without comprising the integrity of the course, I overall learned a great deal about the C++ language (not much about object-oriented programming, but I was prepared for that) and would definitely recommend this course to anyone who wants to pick up C++ (for graphics, game development, performant code, systems programming, etc.). 

Thanks for a great year, Professor Downing!

